["House Of The Rising Sun"
by The Animals playing]
♪ There is a house in New Orleans ♪
[energy whining faintly]
♪ They call the Rising Sun ♪
♪ And it's been the ruin ♪
♪ Of many a poor boy ♪
♪ And God I know I'm one ♪
[bee buzzing]
♪ My mother was a tailor ♪
-[rabbit chomps]
-[winces]
[energy builds up]
[gasping]
-♪ My father was ♪
-[woman reacts in disgust]
♪ A gamblin' man ♪
♪ Down in New Orleans ♪
[clamoring]
♪ Oh Mother, tell your children ♪
-♪ Not to do what I have done ♪
-[school bell rings]
[boy] Freak!
[energy building up]
[energy resonates]
♪ Spend your lives in sin and misery ♪
[high-pitched ringing]
♪ In the House of the Rising Sun ♪
[coughing]
♪ Well, I got one foot on the platform ♪
♪ The other foot on the train ♪
[heart monitor beeping]
♪ I'm goin' back to New Orleans ♪
[exhales]
-[heart monitor flatlining]
-♪ To wear that ball and chain ♪
[energy pulsing]
No!
Stop! It hurts!
[echoing yell]
♪ Well, there is a house in New Orleans ♪
-[echoing scream]
-♪ They call the Rising Sun ♪
-♪ And it's been the ruin ♪
-[echoing scream] I can't!
♪ Of many a poor boy ♪
♪ And God I know I'm one ♪
[emotional instrumental music playing]
[energy whines faintly]
[Diego whistles]
You! Upstairs! Now!
[sighs]
[Klaus] Oh man.
Heavens to Betsy. What did you do?
Did Viktor go full "Carrie" again?
We didn't do this.
-Harlan?
-Don't!
Don't come near me, please.
I just want to make sure that you're okay.
[Harlan breathing rapidly]
You can… You can talk now.
-[Viktor] It's--
-I can do a lot of things now.
[phone ringing]
Who the hell is creepy grandpa?
That's the kid Viktor saved in Dallas.
-Oh yeah, shit.
-Oh shit! You're right!
But didn't he get rid of all
the kid's mojo when he did all "that"?
-Yeah, I guess that didn't stick.
-[Klaus] What's he doing here, now?
Who cares? He saved us from the Sparrows.
-[Luther] Sloane.
-Wow, he did that?
[Luther] Sloane, are you all right?
-[winces]
-It's okay.
[ominous music playing]
-[gasps]
-It's all right.
Sloane, it's all right.
Sloane.
You got a live one, Luther!
Shit. Sloane!
-Harlan, wait!
-Hey!
Um… Go help Luther.
What about you?
-I can handle it. Go.
-[Allison] Okay, okay, okay.
[Lila laughs]
Holy shit.
I was just here.
How long was I bloody gone?
It seems the grandfather paradox
is affecting everything.
Even places out of time.
Is that possible?
I stopped tracking what was possible
a long time ago.
[rumbling]
We better get moving.
I'll check the Infinite Switchboard.
And I'll check Herb's office.
Little cockroach would survive anything.
-Bye.
-[Five] See ya.
Miss you.
[Five] That's weird.
[dramatic instrumental music playing]
[panting]
Sloane!
Sloane, wait.
Sloane?
Oh! Jesus.
[Luther] Sloane?
Sloane?
[Luther grunts]
Sloane…
-[Luther] What are you doing?
-Did you set me up?
[straining] No, I would never do that.
[gasps]
I would. Drop him.
[grunts]
-You good?
-[Luther] I'm good.
All right, let's go.
Diego, it's okay. You can let her go now.
What? Are you kidding me?
I said let her go. She's hurt.
She is the enemy.
If you hurt her, I will bury you.
You gonna bury me too, Luther?
Just… [rapid breathing]
Just let me talk to her.
Okay? Please.
[Allison] Trust me.
[gasps]
She's gonna talk.
It's okay.
[feedback whining]
[panting]
[groans]
[energy pulses]
-[feedback stops]
-[Viktor panting]
You haven't aged.
It's… It's only been three days for me.
How did you find me?
Ever since that day at the lake.
[Harlan] We're connected.
I can feel you, people like you…
[breathing rapidly]
Like us.
What does it feel like?
Vibrations.
Like a… tuning fork in my head.
[feedback whining]
[Harlan] Louder and louder,
the closer one of you gets.
[screams]
[feedback intensifies, stops]
I can put it out if I focus, but…
sometimes I slip.
Is that what happened downstairs?
There's no hope for me.
[Harlan groans]
I'm…
not special like you.
I wasn't made for this… power.
I can't control it.
I'm here now, okay?
I'm gonna make this right.
How?
I heard a rumor…
Whoa, Allison, hey.
-…you're gonna tell me the truth.
-Let her do her thing, man.
Where's the briefcase?
[Sloane breathing rapidly]
[whimpers softly]
Tell me.
Where is it?
[whimpering]
Where the hell… is it?
-I don't know!
-Allison!
We left it in your house,
and it is our only way out of this!
Where is it? [voice echoes]
[Luther] That's enough!
[Sloane gasps]
You better ask yourself
which side you on, bro.
-[Luther] Would you get out of here?
-Gonna tell me what to do?
All of you, just get out!
She doesn't leave your sight.
Do you understand?
[Allison] This isn't over.
Come on, let's go.
[sighs] Breathe, breathe, breathe,
breathe, breathe.
[inhales, exhales]
I heard a rumor… [voice echoes]
[groaning]
…that you were… [voice echoes]
[groans]
…happy.
[pained breathing]
[screams]
[emotional string music playing]
Viktor.
[Viktor] You cut your hair.
Yeah.
Uh, you okay?
Yeah, never better.
What's wrong?
The Sparrows don't have the briefcase.
They never did.
What?
-Are you sure?
-[Allison] Yeah, very.
What do we do now? What's our next move?
I'm sorry. I can't… I can't deal
with this right this second.
We can talk later, okay?
No, not okay.
Later, please.
[Fei] You walked us into a slaughter.
You were both right there with me.
This is as much your fault as mine.
How? You're Number One, remember?
Yeah, but I'm a different kind
of Number One.
Mm, the shitty kind.
That's why Dad demoted you.
That's why he made Marcus Number One.
You don't know how to lead.
You don't have what it takes.
[ravens cawing]
[Fei laughs]
Marcus would have never let--
He's gone.
You know what our real problem is?
You.
-[exhales sharply]
-You're a shit Number Two, Fei.
-[Christopher speaks]
-[Ben chuckles] See?
Even Christopher agrees with me.
[wings fluttering]
[ravens chirping]
[Reginald] What have I missed?
Sounds juicy.
[Fei sighs]
Dad, we lost Jayme, Alphonso, and Sloane.
Oh! Well, then we should be out
looking for them. Fetch my jacket.
No, Dad.
He means they're dead.
Such a shame.
What happened?
Those assholes from the Umbrella Academy.
You were actually right about them.
After Marcus disappeared,
Ben led us on a mission to take them down.
And it would have worked,
but they had some kind of secret weapon.
This old guy with powers on their side,
which is totally cheating.
[Ben] We didn't have a chance.
So what do you intend to do about it?
We need to be ready
if they come to finish us off,
and they will
unless we come up with a plan.
So, what is your next genius idea,
idea guy?
-[scoffs]
-[raven cawing]
[Christopher speaks]
[Ben] Fine. Go with her. See if I care.
There is still a way
to turn this to your favor.
You're gonna clean up
every square inch of this.
What? Most of this wasn't even my fault.
It was the man, the octogenarian.
I don't give a shit where he grew up.
You're gonna clean. No one--
Yeah, you're just mad that you got
your ass kicked by a floating cube!
-[Klaus laughs]
-That's it. You're grounded.
Why are you laughing?
[Diego] You were conveniently absent
when all this shit went down.
I was talking with Dad.
Don't move an inch.
[Klaus] Huh?
-You ask him about the mother shit?
-Yeah.
-What'd he say?
-That he didn't kill them.
-Oh, you believe him?
-Well, I don't know. It's hard to say.
The Sparrows have got him
all doped up like a… like a me!
[Klaus chuckles]
It doesn't alarm you at all,
the fact that they're drugging
their father?
Wish we would have thought of that.
Anything else?
Oh, you know the luggage room
in the basement of the Academy
where we used to huff paint?
[Diego] Yeah, vaguely.
Do you recall this
blinding orb of light?
-Now we're done.
-Huh?
As requested.
-[Stan] What the hell is this?
-Your punishment.
And when you're done here,
you're gonna clean every room
on Chet's list to pay for this shit, okay?
And your Uncle Klaus
is gonna watch over you.
-What? No! Please don't.
-What? No! Why can't you do it?
Because I have to babysit Luther
in case Allison pops off again. Okay?
All right, you two have tons in common.
-No, we don't.
-Really? Like what?
-Being a pain in my ass.
-Eat shit.
-[Klaus] You're an asshat.
-Heard that.
Okay.
Okay. That's good.
[broadcast warbling]
There's been a rip
in the space-time continuum.
It's swallowing everything.
Oh, my sweet Dot, Iris,
Josh from accounting, they're all gone.
[audio garbles]
I've tried everything!
I don't know what else to do.
The timeline is collapsing.
[yelps]
Oh.
[screaming in background]
This is… the end.
[screams]
I could kill
for some scrambled eggs right now.
-This is bigger than the timeline, Lila.
-What's bigger than the timeline?
-The entire universe.
-Yeah.
The missing dogs, people…
It's the opposite of the big bang.
Instead of the universe expanding,
it's now collapsing in on itself.
Like a prolapsing rectum.
That's a weird analogy, but yeah.
Here, then.
This might give us some answers.
-[Five] Master handbook.
-The one and only.
[pages rustling]
Here we are.
Okay, protocol.
"In the unlikely case
of the grandfather paradox,
the founder
and any essential personnel should--"
[Lila] "…be immediately remanded
to the operations bunker."
The founder.
What founder?
I don't know.
We need to find that bunker…
[in unison] ASAP.
Jinx.
[Lila] A-B-C-1-2-3, personal padlock.
-[Five] Can you not--
-You can't speak!
All right.
I hate your family.
That's cool.
Not a super fan of yours right now.
-Were you part of it?
-Of what?
-Ambushing us with Superman's grandpa.
-Sloane… [sighs]
My family can't decide whether or not
to put mushrooms on a pizza.
I have no idea who that old guy is.
He just showed up.
You expect me to believe that?
Hold on here.
You attacked us.
-I tried to warn you.
-Yeah, pfft, at the last second.
-You almost took us out.
-Yeah, but we didn't.
And your stupid family's fine,
and half of mine is dead.
Were you just…
using me?
Getting close to gather information?
Do you really believe that?
[sighs]
Sloane, you need to know
something about me.
I don't really have any friends.
Or… romances.
I just have my family,
and I would do anything to protect them
except betray you
because that's not who I wanna be.
So, if you're playing me right now,
you win.
But if this…
if this is for real,
we have to trust each other
because we're not our families.
Okay.
[sniffles]
[gargles]
Ahhh!
[inhales sharply, belches]
Ugh.
Hey, you missed a spot.
You missed a spot on your face,
and I'm not complaining.
Hey, hey, hey. Listen to me, buddy.
This is nothing compared
to what I endured when I was your age.
You know he once gave me
six months' laundry duty. Six months!
Just for pawning one of his
stupid priceless artifacts from Mexico.
Well, it turns out
it did have a price, Dad,
and that price was $35 for meth,
thank you very much.
Laundry duty doesn't seem that bad.
Well, it is when you know
what your brothers do into their socks.
Did you get in a lot of trouble at my age?
Oh, tons.
Truancy, larceny, arsony.
You know, a lot of the stuff I was doing
wasn't even illegal at the time.
Have you heard of Klaus's Law?
[Stan] Nope.
[Klaus] Oh, whatever. It doesn't matter.
Half the time,
I was just trying to piss off my dad,
Luther, Diego, or Ben.
-Yeah, oppositional defiant disorder.
-Huh?
-At least that's what my shrink calls it.
-Go on.
It's typically associated
with an argumentative, aggressive…
[in unison] …irritable mood.
-Exactly.
-Yeah.
-Antisocial…
…risk-seeking behavior, and impulsivity.
Ding-dong, who's at the door? Me.
[Klaus] I have the-- Wow!
You know, and it feels so good
to put a name to it,
so all the drugs
and the manipulation and my cult and--
You had a cult?
Well, it was the '60s, babe.
Everybody had one.
But the point is that all of that
was a reaction to my father
and his obscenely high expectations of me.
And then, after Dad,
I had Ben haunting my every move.
Who's Ben?
Ben is your dead uncle.
Who's alive in this timeline.
But he's dead to me. It doesn't matter.
But, I mean, if I set this room on fire…
Yeah?
…would it be fulfilling?
I don't know.
If I was to act out now,
I mean, who would it even be
in opposition to?
-[laughs]
-[lighter clicks]
Maybe this whole new timeline thingy
is a blessing in disguise,
except for you, obviously.
But maybe now I can have,
like, a normal-ish relationship
with my cold and emotionless father.
[Klaus] Huh?
Stanley.
Hey! Ay-ay-ay-ay-ay-ay-ay-ay-ay-ay!
Ch-pfff! Ch-pfff!
-[Stan] Come on!
-No, put it back.
[Klaus tsks]
Okay, you caught me.
All of it, please. Yes, yes.
I thought you were supposed to be
the fun uncle.
I know, me too.
[chuckles]
Can I just keep one thing?
All right, you can keep the panties.
I really should get home.
I can't let you go.
I don't wanna let you go either,
but Jayme and Alphonso,
they deserve a proper burial.
No, I mean,
I can't let you leave.
You're a hostage.
Oh, right. That.
My family already thinks I'm a traitor.
So, I can't--
-No, I totally get it.
-Good.
My family probably is plotting vengeance.
So, I guess we just
go back to fighting
until everybody's dead.
We can put an end to this
and still be together.
How?
I need you to stay in here
until I figure some things out.
Your sister called you Viktor.
Is that what I should call you?
I'd like that.
You know, your mom's a…
a big part of who I am.
She was the first person to truly see me.
It's okay if you wanna ask about her.
Did Sissy hate me for what I did to you?
She said you saved her life.
Did she have a good life?
Hmm.
Wasn't easy.
Not with… me there.
But she was free
in a way she never was on the farm.
She never stopped thinking about you,
and she never gave up hope
that you'd come back to us one day.
Why did you leave us?
I needed you.
We thought you'd be safer away from me.
But I wish I had stayed.
I should have stayed.
[door opens]
Meeting in the poolroom.
Family only.
[Viktor] Stay here. I'll be right back.
[Klaus and Stan yelling] Yeah!
Go faster! Faster!
-[Klaus] Coming through!
-[Stan] Yeah! Ooh.
Squirt, make with the key on this one.
-Chop-chop.
-Let me check.
[keys jingling]
[Stan] Nope, this room isn't on the list,
and I'm not gonna clean a room
that's not even on the list.
White Buffalo.
I could pick the lock,
but Diego took my switchblade.
Yeah, stand down.
You know, I once had to pick a lock
with my teeth
while partially paralyzed on Quaaludes.
Oh man, that was an evening.
All right, keep a watch out
for me, grasshopper.
All right.
You're serious?
We use Sloane as an olive branch.
We let her go as a gesture of peace,
along with the bodies
of Jayme and Alphonso.
Once I'm back with my family,
I can convince them
the old guy had nothing to do with you
and get them to stand down.
You wanna let her go
after attacking us? Uh-uh.
Me? I lost two of my siblings
to you and your murder troll.
Again, Harlan not with us.
Well, he's not not with us.
He was just trying to protect me.
This only works
if I can convince my family
he isn't a part of your team,
so is he with you or not?
[Diego] Harlan saved our asses.
He can stay here as long as he wants.
You know what, Luther?
He can take your bed.
Since you're sleeping with the enemy.
Watch it.
Guys, come on.
Having an ally on the inside
could help us right now.
Right?
Yeah, but how do we know
we can trust Gravity Barbie?
[sighs] I trust her.
Yeah, you trusted emails
from a Nigerian prince.
Tunde was not a prince, he was a king,
and he was unjustly deposed.
Okay.
So rumor me again.
Go on, not hiding anything.
Whatever it takes.
Do whatever you wanna do, Luther.
That's on you.
I've got bigger shit to deal with.
[Diego] Allison. Wait up.
This is just like
a bunch of bureaucratic bullshit.
There's no clear directives in here
about crisis management.
You know, Lila, I shouldn't even be here.
I was… I was out.
I was done, and yet here I am,
swept back into the chaos.
Why can't I just escape this hellhole?
Because you love it.
[flatulence]
My bad.
[Lila] Face it, Five,
apocalypse problems are the only things
that get your heart pumping.
I don't know why people keep saying that.
I don't actually like chaos.
I don't want disorder. I…
I want retirement.
[laughs] Yeah, right. What?
A normal life of groceries and taxes?
You would die of boredom.
Yeah, well, you're not exactly cut out
for domestic bliss either.
'Course I'm bloody not.
Thank God!
I mean, maybe it's a tone thing?
I don't know, but you could really work
on, like, the way you speak.
It's very… It's irritating.
I'm just saying it's something
you can work on, you know?
For the future.
[Five sighs]
Why you smiling, you little pisspot?
'Cause of that.
Well, you could have led with that.
[slurping loudly]
When you said you'd take me for a drink,
I had something a little stronger in mind.
-Do not disrespect the Slushee.
-[scoffs]
Check the glove box.
Oh, thank God.
You know, you're way more fun these days.
Excuse me?
Telling off Luther
and melting Sloane's brain.
You were always the nice one of us.
Okay, okay. You know,
grading on an umbrella curve.
Yeah, well,
getting stuck in the past without Claire,
then leaving Ray, thinking she'd be
waiting for me in the future
only to discover
that she doesn't exist in the present
could do that to a person.
Jesus.
-Do you wanna talk about it?
-No.
Oh, come on.
You know I'm a great therapist.
They call me Dr. Fuego.
No one calls you that.
-They should though.
-Mm-mm.
-That shit sounds badass.
-[laughs]
I've never felt so hopeless in my life.
[man] You're a pretty thing.
[Allison] Even after my voice came back,
I knew the cost
of standing up and speaking out.
[protestors] No more back door!
[chanting] Get out! Get out!
Get out! Get out!
[Allison] Living every day under threat
that you or someone you loved
would disappear or…
[Ray wails in pain]
…fall victim to some heinous crime.
And there's nothing you can do about it.
That shit lingers, huh?
Yeah.
I know we all got stuck in Dallas.
I just…
I don't think some of the others
really understand
what it was like for me, you know?
Yeah.
I know.
[Diego] But hey, we're here now.
-We made it back, right?
-[Allison] Yeah, and for what?
Ray and Claire were the two things
keeping me together,
and just like that,
they're gone, and I am…
[sighs]
I am so angry.
I don't know where to put any of it.
You remember that vigilante shit
I used to do?
Yeah. Bargain Batman.
[both laughing]
Smartass.
You know, you guys all laugh,
but that shit helped me, man.
Kicking assholes in their assholes
is like therapy,
but for cool people.
Yeah, trust me.
I wish I had somebody I could hit.
Well, you spend enough time in the city,
you get to know a few things.
People in there
hate people like us.
We can go in there.
Get a drink, see if they start something.
[Diego] And we make damn sure
we finish it.
Or, we could just drive home.
You know.
[ominous music swelling]
I could really use another drink.
[dissonant rock music playing]
[ship's horn sounding]
[ominous instrumental music playing]
[Christopher speaks]
Well, this is it. This puts an end to it.
[Ben] No.
We want the old man too.
-What are you doing?
-You wanted a plan. Here it is.
It's a stupid plan.
-He isn't a part of the deal.
-[Ben] He is now.
Ben, they aren't working with him.
They had nothing to do with the attacks--
Then they won't mind finding him
and handing him over.
[Ben] It's simple.
Bring us the man who killed our siblings,
and this will all be over.
If not…
[Christopher speaks]
[car doors shutting]
[car engine starts]
Exsqueeze me.
You're excused.
Operations bunker.
[device beeping]
-[alarm buzzes]
-[Lila] We're screwed.
-[female voice] Unauthorized access.
-Oh shit.
Jesus. You're sweating like
a dodgy shrimp on ice. What's wrong?
[flatulence]
[device whirs]
[device chimes]
-[female voice] Access granted.
-[door unlocks]
I guess you're essential personnel.
Wow.
[Lila chuckles]
[ventilator hissing]
[faint raspy breathing]
[air hissing]
[Five] That's him, huh?
The founder.
Looks like tinned beef.
I was expecting more man and less…
[metal clangs]
…can.
It can't be.
What's wrong?
It's me.
[laughing]
No way.
This whole time you've been complaining
about the Commission,
and you're the one who founded it.
Classic.
-If I did, I have no memory of it.
-[Lila laughs]
So here I was thinking
you were a maverick,
but you're a company man,
down to the bone.
I mean, you… [laughs]
You literally cannot breathe
without this place. [laughs]
Something's not right.
I don't have paradox psychosis.
I could feel it outside,
but in here, it's…
nothing.
[raspy voice]
Never were too bright, were we?
The operations bunker is
paradox-proof.
[old Five strains to inhale]
I constructed it as a panic room
in case of a collapse
in the time continuum.
In this room,
all permutations of yourself can exist.
You must be here because of a…
Kugelblitz.
Is that like a cheese blintz?
It's German for "ball of lightning."
[Five] It's an extra kinky
kind of black hole.
The kind that can
suck up entire timelines.
Bingo.
So, how do we fix it?
[raspy chuckle]
[coughing]
You don't.
If you created all of this,
then you must have created a solution.
[wheezing]
[coughs, whimpers]
All that will be left is…
oblivion.
[coughs, inhales]
[Lila] Oblivion?
What do you mean?
This is what you have coming.
Listen to me, you ass.
I just spent the last 20 days
running around
saving the world from apocalypses,
only to keep trying to save the world.
Now I am stuck in this pubescent body,
my hormones are raging,
and all I wanna do is go out
and buy a 1970s Corvette Stingray.
Take it easy on him, Five.
Lila, this is between me and myself,
so stay out of it.
Thank you.
Now, this Kugelblitz,
it is not some tiny leak
that we can simply fix
by patching a couple of pinholes.
It is a giant trash compactor
which is grinding up the universe
and consuming it whole.
So tell me
how you stop it!
Whatever you do…
[heart monitor beeping]
[choking]
…don't save the world.
[heart monitor beeps rapidly]
[device powering down]
What do you mean, don't save-- Five!
[electricity powers down]
[Five] How do I fix this?
He's dead, Five.
[sharp inhale]
Can I have the room?
Er… I don't think I should
leave you two alone.
Lila, I need the room.
[emotional string music playing]
Son of a bitch.
[Five] What's this?
-[lock clicks]
-Ahh…
Got it. [snickers]
-[Stan chuckles]
-[Klaus whistles]
[Stan] Whoa-oh!
[door closes]
Looks like friggin' Indiana Jones in here!
Whoa, a pachinko!
Look at this.
[machine chimes, rattles]
[pachinko melody playing]
[Stan] Ooh, what's this?
Whoa!
[ominous music playing]
[Stan] This is so cool.
[Reginald] I adopted them instead of you.
[Klaus] Dad!
[Reginald] I'm not your father, young man.
Not anymore.
[Stan] What is this?
[gasps] Whoa.
This is so cool.
[imitates gunfire]
Hey, come on. Chop-chop, Stan.
Gotta go see a man about a buffalo--
[groans]
[Stan panting]
[Klaus grunts]
Oh shit.
[Klaus wheezes]
[Stan] No.
Uncle Klaus!
[recording of birdsong plays faintly]
-[recording stops]
-Viktor?
Viktor?
[inhales sharply]
[ominous instrumental music playing]
[Harlan inhales, exhales]
[breathing rapidly]
[ominous music intensifies]
[faint rumbling]
[Viktor] Harlan, you need
to stay in your room.
What's wrong?
Why do you have these?
Huh?
Why?
Do you know them?
-[Harlan grunts]
-[Viktor gasps]
[gasping breaths]
["House of the Rising Sun"
by Jeremy Renner playing]
♪ There is a house in New Orleans ♪
♪ They call the Rising Sun ♪
♪ It's been the ruin ♪
♪ Of many a poor boy ♪
♪ And God I know I'm one ♪
♪ My mother was a tailor ♪
♪ She sewed my old blue jeans ♪
♪ My father was a foolish man ♪
♪ Down in New Orleans ♪
♪ Now the only time ♪
♪ He's satisfied ♪
♪ Is when he's on the run ♪
[Viktor gasps]
♪ Oh Mother, tell your children ♪
[shivering breaths]
♪ To do as I say, not as I've done… ♪
It was you?
You killed our mothers?
You caused all this?
♪ The House of the Rising Sun ♪
[rock violin music playing]